README.md, before:

# Communication Component

This component sends communications of any variety, email, sms, chat based on the 
user's preferences. Under the hood, it is using Symfony Notifier and Symfony Messenger.

## Getting started
The simplest setup is to have an email sent to an SMTP channel. To set up the 
configuration, add the following to `config\config.php`

```php 
$aggregator = new ConfigAggregator([
    ...
    \Communication\ConfigProvider::class,
    ...
```

Next, create `communication.global.php` and set up a simple route.

```php 
return [
    'communication' => [
        'routes' => [
            'email' => 'channel'
        ],
    ],
];
```

If you don't set the `from` address globally, you can also set it on a communication level.

In your .env file set the configuration for the email communication channel
```bash
COMMUNICATION_TRANSPORT_EMAIL_TYPE=smtp
COMMUNICATION_TRANSPORT_EMAIL_AUTH_MODE=login
COMMUNICATION_TRANSPORT_EMAIL_ENCRYPTION=ssl
COMMUNICATION_TRANSPORT_EMAIL_USERNAME=********
COMMUNICATION_TRANSPORT_EMAIL_PASSWORD=********
COMMUNICATION_TRANSPORT_EMAIL_URI=smtp.mailtrap.io
COMMUNICATION_TRANSPORT_EMAIL_PORT=2525
```

// todo: set up a generic template

Now from the root of your project
```bash
vendor/bin/laminas communication:send-test-email your-email@your-url.com --from=your-from-address@your-url.com
```

The email should be delivered to you.

## Using Messenger

To use Messenger to help handle the delivery of the emails simply update the `communication.global.php` file.
```php 
return [
    'communication' => [
        'routes' => [
            'email' => 'bus'
        ],
    ],
];
```

Once again run
```bash
vendor/bin/laminas communication:send-test-email your-email@your-url.com --from=your-from-address@your-url.com
```

A table in your MySQL database will be created automatically to handle the messages.
However, if you check, you will not see the email in your inbox. That's because you need to 
start the message consumer. That is a pretty straight forward process.

```bash
vendor/bin/laminas messenger:consume communication.bus.transport.email
```

This will start the consumer. Your test email will now be in your inbox.

## Handling Failures

To get a list of the failed messages, run this command
```bash
vendor/bin/laminas messenger:failed:show -vv
```

You can see details about a specific failure
```bash
vendor/bin/laminas messenger:failed:show {id} -vv
```

You can view and retry messages one-by-one
```bash
vendor/bin/laminas messenger:failed:retry -vv
```

You can retry specific messages
```bash
vendor/bin/laminas messenger:failed:retry {id1} {id2} --force
```

You can retry all messages at once
```bash
vendor/bin/laminas messenger:failed:retry --force
```

You can also remove a message without retrying it
```bash
vendor/bin/laminas messenger:failed:remove {id}
```

Commit message:

Allow for configurable message transport

README.md, after:

# Communication Component

This component sends communications of any variety, email, sms, chat based on the 
user's preferences. Under the hood, it is using Symfony Notifier and Symfony Messenger.

## Getting started
The simplest setup is to have an email sent to an SMTP channel. To set up the 
configuration, add the following to `config\config.php`

```php 
$aggregator = new ConfigAggregator([
    ...
    \Communication\ConfigProvider::class,
    ...
```

Next, create `communication.global.php` and set up a simple route.

```php 
return [
    'communication' => [
        'routes' => [
            'email' => 'channel'
        ],
    ],
];
```

If you don't set the `from` address globally, you can also set it on a communication level.

In your .env file set the configuration for the email communication channel
```bash
COMMUNICATION_TRANSPORT_EMAIL_TYPE=smtp
COMMUNICATION_TRANSPORT_EMAIL_AUTH_MODE=login
COMMUNICATION_TRANSPORT_EMAIL_ENCRYPTION=ssl
COMMUNICATION_TRANSPORT_EMAIL_USERNAME=********
COMMUNICATION_TRANSPORT_EMAIL_PASSWORD=********
COMMUNICATION_TRANSPORT_EMAIL_URI=smtp.mailtrap.io
COMMUNICATION_TRANSPORT_EMAIL_PORT=2525
```

// todo: set up a generic template

Now from the root of your project
```bash
vendor/bin/laminas communication:send-test-email your-email@your-url.com --from=your-from-address@your-url.com
```

The email should be delivered to you.

## Using Messenger

To use Messenger to help handle the delivery of the emails simply update the `communication.global.php` file.
```php 
return [
    'communication' => [
        'routes' => [
            'email' => 'bus'
        ],
    ],
];
```

This will default to using the Doctrine transport. If you want to change the transort, in your .env file add the 
transport.
```bash
COMMUNICATION_MESSENGER_TRANSPORT_DNS=redis://localhost:6379/messages
```

Refer to the [Symfony Messenger Transport Configuration documentation](https://symfony.com/doc/current/messenger.html#transport-configuration) 
for more information on available transport configurations.

Once again run
```bash
vendor/bin/laminas communication:send-test-email your-email@your-url.com --from=your-from-address@your-url.com
```

The command will complete, however, if you check, you will not see the email in your inbox. That's because you need to 
start the message consumer. That is a pretty straight forward process.

```bash
vendor/bin/laminas messenger:consume communication.bus.transport.email
```

This will start the consumer. Your test email will now be in your inbox.

See more information on how to set up your consumers in the 
[Symfony Messenger documentation](https://symfony.com/doc/current/messenger.html#consuming-messages-running-the-worker)

## Handling Failures

To get a list of the failed messages, run this command
```bash
vendor/bin/laminas messenger:failed:show -vv
```

You can see details about a specific failure
```bash
vendor/bin/laminas messenger:failed:show {id} -vv
```

You can view and retry messages one-by-one
```bash
vendor/bin/laminas messenger:failed:retry -vv
```

You can retry specific messages
```bash
vendor/bin/laminas messenger:failed:retry {id1} {id2} --force
```

You can retry all messages at once
```bash
vendor/bin/laminas messenger:failed:retry --force
```

You can also remove a message without retrying it
```bash
vendor/bin/laminas messenger:failed:remove {id}
```
