db/README.md, before:

# Database Migrations

This directory contains database migrations for the Communication Component using Phinx.

## Directory Structure

- `migrations/`: Contains all the database migration files
- `seeds/`: Contains database seed files (if any)

## Migration Files

- `20250519101655_create_communication_definitions.php`: Creates the tables for communication definitions and channel definitions
- `20250519101717_create_communication_templates.php`: Creates the table for communication templates

## Seed Files

- `GenericCommunicationSeed.php`: Creates a generic email communication definition and template with a simple body variable

## Running Migrations

You can run migrations using the provided script:

```bash
# Run migrations in development environment (default)
bin/migrate

# Run a specific command (e.g., status, rollback)
bin/migrate status
bin/migrate rollback

# Run migrations in a specific environment
bin/migrate production
bin/migrate production rollback
```

## Running Seeds

To seed the database with initial data:

```bash
# Run all seeds
bin/migrate seed:run

# Run a specific seed
bin/migrate seed:run GenericCommunicationSeed

# Run seeds in a specific environment
bin/migrate production seed:run
bin/migrate production seed:run GenericCommunicationSeed

# Alternative using Phinx directly
vendor/bin/phinx seed:run -e development
vendor/bin/phinx seed:run -e development -s GenericCommunicationSeed
```

## Creating New Migrations

To create a new migration:

```bash
vendor/bin/phinx create MyNewMigration
```

This will create a new migration file in the `db/migrations` directory.

## Configuration

The Phinx configuration is in `phinx.yml` in the root directory. You can modify this file to change database connection settings or other Phinx options.

### Database Credentials

Before running migrations, make sure to update the database credentials in `phinx.yml`:

```yaml
development:
    adapter: pgsql
    host: localhost
    name: communication_development
    user: your_postgres_username
    pass: your_postgres_password
    port: 5432
    charset: utf8
```

You can also use environment variables for sensitive information:

```yaml
development:
    adapter: pgsql
    host: '${DB_HOST:-localhost}'
    name: '${DB_NAME:-communication_development}'
    user: '${DB_USER:-postgres}'
    pass: '${DB_PASSWORD:-postgres}'
    port: '${DB_PORT:-5432}'
    charset: utf8
```

## Available Environments

- `development`: For local development
- `testing`: For running tests
- `production`: For production deployment

## PostgreSQL Specific Notes

These migrations are specifically designed for PostgreSQL. They use PostgreSQL-specific features like:

- `jsonb` data type for storing JSON data
- Triggers for automatically updating the `updated_at` column

Commit message:

Convert Phinx configuration from YAML to PHP for better environment variable support
- Replace phinx.yml with phinx.php to enable proper environment variable handling
- Fix GitHub CI database authentication issues by using getenv() with fallbacks
- Add automatic .env and .env.test file loading in Phinx configuration
- Update migration path to point to db/migrations/postgres directory
- Convert port to integer to prevent PDO connection errors
- Update documentation to reflect new PHP configuration format
- Ensure all environments (production, development, testing) use consistent variable names

This resolves the 'invalid integer value' and authentication failures in GitHub Actions.

db/README.md, after:

# Database Migrations

This directory contains database migrations for the Communication Component using Phinx.

## Directory Structure

- `migrations/`: Contains all the database migration files
- `seeds/`: Contains database seed files (if any)

## Migration Files

- `20250519101655_create_communication_definitions.php`: Creates the tables for communication definitions and channel definitions
- `20250519101717_create_communication_templates.php`: Creates the table for communication templates

## Seed Files

- `GenericCommunicationSeed.php`: Creates a generic email communication definition and template with a simple body variable

## Running Migrations

You can run migrations using the provided script:

```bash
# Run migrations in development environment (default)
bin/migrate

# Run a specific command (e.g., status, rollback)
bin/migrate status
bin/migrate rollback

# Run migrations in a specific environment
bin/migrate production
bin/migrate production rollback
```

## Running Seeds

To seed the database with initial data:

```bash
# Run all seeds
bin/migrate seed:run

# Run a specific seed
bin/migrate seed:run GenericCommunicationSeed

# Run seeds in a specific environment
bin/migrate production seed:run
bin/migrate production seed:run GenericCommunicationSeed

# Alternative using Phinx directly
vendor/bin/phinx seed:run -e development
vendor/bin/phinx seed:run -e development -s GenericCommunicationSeed
```

## Creating New Migrations

To create a new migration:

```bash
vendor/bin/phinx create MyNewMigration
```

This will create a new migration file in the `db/migrations` directory.

## Configuration

The Phinx configuration is in `phinx.php` in the root directory. This PHP configuration file automatically loads environment variables from `.env` files and uses them for database connections.

### Database Credentials

Database credentials are automatically loaded from environment variables. Set them in your `.env` file:

```bash
DB_HOST=localhost
DB_NAME=communication_development
DB_USER=your_postgres_username
DB_PASSWORD=your_postgres_password
DB_PORT=5432
POSTGRES_SCHEMA=communication_component
```

You can also use environment variables for sensitive information:

```yaml
development:
    adapter: pgsql
    host: '${DB_HOST:-localhost}'
    name: '${DB_NAME:-communication_development}'
    user: '${DB_USER:-postgres}'
    pass: '${DB_PASSWORD:-postgres}'
    port: '${DB_PORT:-5432}'
    charset: utf8
```

## Available Environments

- `development`: For local development
- `testing`: For running tests
- `production`: For production deployment

## PostgreSQL Specific Notes

These migrations are specifically designed for PostgreSQL. They use PostgreSQL-specific features like:

- `jsonb` data type for storing JSON data
- Triggers for automatically updating the `updated_at` column
